---
layout: post
title:      "My Journey to Discover Passion in Programming"
date:       2020-06-01 12:19:06 +0000
permalink:  my_journey_to_discover_passion_in_programming
---


I started my journey through higher education studying Manufacturing Engineering at Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. I would summarize my time spent in college as the most transformative period of personal growth in my life. I was able to explore new interests and learn to think for myself as I was trying to figure out how to set my life up for happiness and success. Unfortunately, through this period I came to understand that the Engineering major I had been accepted for did not spark that internal passion that I had once found in my other interests. I started to realize that the course my life had been set on was based off of the thoughts and opinions of the world around me. Since I never stopped to think about what I truly wanted to do with my life I decided to take a personal inventory of my interests, passions, and dreams. So, I asked myself, "If I could design any career path, what would that look like?". And after 2 years attending Cal Poly, I decided that I had to chase my dream of working as a lighting programmer in the music industry.

After I left college at age 20, I realized I was in for quite a long journey. But having such a vivid vision of how I wanted to live my life allowed me to wake up every day excited to learn and make it happen. I came to learn that lighting production at the time didn't have any streamlined education options that were realistic in my situation. So, over the course of the next two years I taught myself how to learn and grow my skills through YouTube and User Manuals. That isolated time spent struggling with new software and figuring out how to express my creativity without a mentor forced me to create a unique take a on improvising visual production during a live show. This laid the foundation for the start of my career as I was able to land my first gig programming and operating lasers at a local Santa Barbara club (EOS Lounge) for one of my favorite electronic artists, Ghastly. From that point on I had set myself up for an exciting climb up the ladder of the industry. I am so grateful to say that the result of this uncertain change in career path has given me the opportunity to work alongside my favorite artists and check off my bucket list of dream gigs.

Over my journey through the music industry I primarily worked as a lighting programmer/operator where I had to understand how the objects/commands/data I was working with in my lighting software would be accurately represented in a live concert setting. As I dove deeper into the software, I discovered that I could gain greater control over my performance if I learned how create my own custom plugins using Lua. Through reading the Lua documentation and decipher example code from other lighting programmers, I wrote my first Hello World program. As I learned more, I started to take on a new interest in software development and found myself excited to see how far I could take my lighting plugins.

This past fall I decided I wanted to a dive deeper into software engineering because I wanted to see if this new passion was something I wanted to take more seriously. So, I enrolled in my first Computer Science at Santa Barbara City College learning all the fundamentals of programming while working with Python and I ended up catching the coding bug. After the Python course I enrolled in an Object Oriented Programming class working with Java. At this time I had started to grow comforatable with the process of learning a new language and had a collection of my favorite go-to online resources.

I’m looking forward to taking this next step towards a career as a Software Engineer and I'm excited for what's to come throughout this journey!
